# NodeJS Questions

- Non Blocking I/O
- What and Nodejs
- What is the Event Loop? Ans: The event loop is what allows Node.js to perform non-blocking I/O operations — despite the fact that JavaScript is single-threaded — by offloading operations to the system kernel whenever possible.
- What is Event-driven programming?Ans: Event-driven programming is building our application based on and responding to events. When an event occurs, like click or keypress, we are running a callback function which is registered to the element for that event.Event driven programming follows mainly a publish-subscribe pattern.
- What are control Flow Statements? Ans: Code snippet which executes whenever there are any asynchronous calls made. They evaluate the order in which functions are executed.
- Order: Handle Execution and Queue, Data collection and storage, concurrency handling and limiting, execution of next piece of code
- Which Asynchronous Tasks that should occur in an event Loop?
- Blocking I/O
- High Computational Requirement
- Real Time I/O
-
- Node Js Disadvantages: Can't take Heavy CPU computation. Usage of Relational Databases with Nodejs is becoming obsolete already
- Why does Node Js use an event based model? This is to handle blocking problems at time of I/O
- What is Event Based Programming in Node Js? Ans: ere the workflow execution is controlled by occurrence of events
- AJAX and Node Js: Client side/Serverside, Browser/Server
- Node Frameworks: Express(Most Used Flexible, lightweight), Sails(MVC), Hapi, Nestjs
- Security Implementations in Nodejs: Error handling protocols as well as Authentication pipelines
- Spawn and Fork? Spawn() creates a new process to be executed at later point of time by command line
- child_process.spawn()
- fork(): can be considered as an  instance of spawn
- methods child_process.fork()
- What is Middleware?
- Global Objects in Nodejs? They are accessible across all modules of the Node Js Application. No need to include.
- Stubs? They are functions that are used to access and analyse individual component behaviour. When executing test cases, stubs are useful in providing the details of the functions executed
- What is buffer class? This is used to store data. Buffer class is Global Nodejs object and class refers to a raw memory allocation that is not present in V8 heap structure. Data that is stored can be objects and array while scripting
- Connect Module? Connects Nodejs ad HTTP
- Streams in Node Js? Data Entities which work similar to the strings and array objects. Types: Duplex, readable, writable and Transform
- REPL In Nodejs: Read Eval Print and Loop. It provides virtual env to execute the JS using Node. ex: node index.js
- Tracing in Nodejs? It traces all the log data generated by V8 into a log file
- EventEmitter in Nodejs? Every single object in nodejs emits an instance of EventEmitter class
- setImmediate() and setTimeout(): SI: the function is meant to execute the given code script after the current event loop is complete. ST: A function used to execute code after the specified time
- Architectural Practices: Scalable Applications?  Load Balancers ISTIO SERVICE MESH
- Microservices architecture
- CPU
